Added mechanism to use Client ID Metadata Document for SPIFFE client metadata discovery (#34)
arndt-s/oauth-spiffe-client-authentication: draft-ietf-oauth-spiffe-client-auth.md

2. Verify that the JWT has not expired (check the `exp` claim).
3. Verify that the `aud` claim contains only the issuer identifier of the authorization server as its sole value. See {{!I-D.draft-ietf-oauth-rfc7523bis}} for details.
4. Verify the JWT signature using the signing keys of the trust domains according to {{spiffe-bundle-validation}}.

> 5. Verify that the SPIFFE ID in the `sub` claim matches or is associated with a recognized client identifier. If the client authentication is presented with a `client_id` that is a URL described in {{I-D.ietf-oauth-client-id-metadata-document}}, verify that the SPIFFE ID in the `sub` claim matches the `spiffe_id` value in the Client ID Metadata Document (see {{client-registration-metadata}}). If the `spiffe_id` value uses a wildcard, it MUST end with the two-character sequence "`/*`". In this case, the authorization server MUST perform a path-segment prefix match: the `sub` claim value MUST begin with the `spiffe_id` value excluding the trailing "`*`" (i.e., up to and including the final "`/`"), and this prefix MUST correspond to complete path segment(s) of the SPIFFE ID (for example, `spiffe://example.org/client/*` matches `spiffe://example.org/client/123` but does not match `spiffe://example.org/client123`). Otherwise, the `sub` claim MUST be an exact match of the `spiffe_id` value.

Author: I don't love how long this bullet point item has gotten. It might make more sense to move the details of the processing rules down to a section below.

Reviewer: Perhaps add it to the Client Registration Metadata section to concentrate the CIMD processing rules in one place? Basically move this to Client Registration Metadata

 If the `spiffe_id` value uses a wildcard, it MUST end with the two-character sequence "`/*`". In this case, the authorization server MUST perform a path-segment prefix match: the `sub` claim value MUST begin with the `spiffe_id` value excluding the trailing "`*`" (i.e., up to and including the final "`/`"), and this prefix MUST correspond to complete path segment(s) of the SPIFFE ID (for example, `spiffe://example.org/client/*` matches `spiffe://example.org/client/123` but does not match `spiffe://example.org/client123`). Otherwise, the `sub` claim MUST be an exact match of the `spiffe_id` value.

}
~~~

### JWT-SVID example with Client ID Metadata Document

The following examples illustrates a `client_credentials` request to the token endpoint of an OAuth 2.0 authorization server leveraging a SPIFFE JWT-SVID to authenticate the client.

~~~
POST /token HTTP/1.1
Host: as.example.com
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

grant_type=client_credentials&
client_id=https%3A%2F%2Fexample.org%2Fclient%2Fmetadata.json&
client_assertion_type=urn%3Aietf%3Aparams%3Aoauth%3A
client-assertion-type%3Ajwt-spiffe&

> client_assertion=eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6IjR2QzhhZ3ljSHU2cm5rRUVKWUFINlZ1Q2U0Sm9Ta1BWIiwidHlwIjoiSldUIn0.eyJhdWQiOlsiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcy5leGFtcGxlLmNvbS90b2tlbiJdLCJleHAiOjE3NDcxMjQ1NDMsImlhdCI6MTc0NzEyNDI0Mywic3ViIjoic3BpZmZlOi8vZXhhbXBsZS5vcmcvY2xpZW50LzEyMzQifQ.Xlv5lW4cbxDsQk4l0paewG4nXOR7MxF_FMn_c27DX45Bxr2HUZf9a6Untfq5S47xpwbw495HBL6_1Lc6TMJxmw

Author: The JWTs are not identical, but they do look very similar, because the only difference is the `sub` value. I did regenerate the JWT token for the second example.

~~~

For clarity, the SPIFFE-JWT header and body decoded:

~~~
{
  "alg": "ES256",
  "kid": "4vC8agycHu6rnkEEJYAH6VuCe4JoSkPV",
  "typ": "JWT"
}.
{
  "aud": [

>     "https://as.example.com/token"

Reviewer 2: @aaronpk 

I think this PR is good.

However, one point: I had been planning to mention this eventually, but in both the pre-change and post-change drafts, the `aud` value in the JWT-SVID example is set to the token endpoint URL. Since the specification itself states, *"Verify that the aud claim contains only the issuer identifier of the authorization server as its sole value. See [I-D.draft-ietf-oauth-rfc7523bis] for details."*, it would be better to change the `aud` value in the example from `https://as.example.com/token` to `https://as.example.com`.

Author: Yep good catch!

Similar to the trust establishment, corresponding OAuth clients need to be established prior of using SPIFFE as client authentication. This is also out of scope, implementors may for example choose to leverage OAuth 2.0 dynamic client registration according to {{RFC7591}} or configure them out of band.

## Client Registration Metadata {#client-registration-metadata}

This specification defines the following client metadata parameters for use in Client ID Metadata Documents {{I-D.ietf-oauth-client-id-metadata-document}}:

spiffe_id
: REQUIRED. The SPIFFE ID of the client, e.g. `spiffe://example.org/my-oauth-client`. The value MAY include a trailing `*` character (e.g. `spiffe://example.org/workloads/*`) indicating that a prefix match against the SPIFFE ID in the `sub` claim of the JWT-SVID is acceptable rather than requiring an exact match.

spiffe_bundle_endpoint

> : OPTIONAL. The URL of the SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint for the client's trust domain, which the authorization server can use to retrieve the signing keys for validating the client's SVIDs. If not provided, the authorization server MUST have an alternative means of obtaining the signing keys for the client's trust domain, such as by using the keys provided in the `jwks` or `jwks_uri` in the Client ID Metadata Document.

Author: This is a valid question. I was imagining the client's `jwks` or `jwks_uri` could point to the SPIFFE Workload API's keys instead of using the SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint. I guess the question is whether the Bundle Endpoint is always used in SPIFFE or whether it's an optional feature.

> : OPTIONAL. The URL of the SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint for the client's trust domain, which the authorization server can use to retrieve the signing keys for validating the client's SVIDs. If not provided, the authorization server MUST have an alternative means of obtaining the signing keys for the client's trust domain, such as by using the keys provided in the `jwks` or `jwks_uri` in the Client ID Metadata Document.

Reviewer: This spec is opinionated about using the SPIFFE bundle end-point. There is a whole section that talks about alternatives and why they are problematic. There is also this PR https://github.com/arndt-s/oauth-spiffe-client-authentication/pull/33 that tries to talk about alternatives and fallbacks. For JWTs, workloads never sign their own JWTs, that is always done by the SPIFFE Issuer. 

Perhaps something like this (for now)

```suggestion
: OPTIONAL. The URL of the SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint for the client's trust domain, which the authorization server can use to retrieve the signing keys for validating the client's SVIDs. If not provided, the authorization server MUST obtain the signing keys for the client's trust domain through some other established mechanism, such as a pre-configured SPIFFE bundle.
```

This PR talks about using OIDC connect discovery - https://github.com/arndt-s/oauth-spiffe-client-authentication/pull/33 (and some of the pitfalls to look out for) 

Once that is merged, we can update this section to reference it (e.g. established mechanism, such as a pre-configured SPIFFE bundle or a OpenID Connect Metadata Discovery document that contains the SPIFFE trust domain signing keys (see {{jwt-svid-security-considerations}})

> : OPTIONAL. The URL of the SPIFFE Bundle Endpoint for the client's trust domain, which the authorization server can use to retrieve the signing keys for validating the client's SVIDs. If not provided, the authorization server MUST have an alternative means of obtaining the signing keys for the client's trust domain, such as by using the keys provided in the `jwks` or `jwks_uri` in the Client ID Metadata Document.

Author: Ok, I updated the examples to use the bundle instead.
